OBSDOCS-1749: Add section about uiplugin in installing logging (#92388)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/log6x-installing-the-logging-ui-plug-in-gui.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.4
:_template-generated: 2025-04-18
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="installing-the-logging-ui-plug-in_gui{context}"]
= Installing the Logging UI plug-in by using the web console

Install the Logging UI plug-in by using the web console to visualize logs.
 
.Prerequisites

> * You have installed the Loki operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have administrator permissions.
* You have access to the OpenShift Container Platform web console.
* You installed and configured {loki-op}.
```

Author: done

.Procedure
. Install the {coo-full}. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/cluster_observability_operator/installing-cluster-observability-operators[Cluster Observability Operator].

. Navigate to the *Installed Operators* page. Select the *ClusterObservabilityOperator* under *Provided APIs*, find the `UIPlugin` resource and click *Create Instance*.

. Select the YAML view, and then use the following template to create a `UIPlugin` custom resource (CR):
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: UIPlugin
metadata:
  name: logging  # <1>
spec:
  type: Logging  # <2>
  logging:
    lokiStack:
      name: logging-loki  # <3>
----
<1> Set `name` to `logging`.
<2> Set `type` to `Logging`.
<3> `name` must match the name of your LokiStack instance. 
+
[NOTE]
====
If you did not install LokiStack in the `openshift-logging` namespace, set the LokiStack namespace under the `lokiStack` configuration. 
====

. Click *Create*.

.Verification

> . Refresh the page when a pop-up message instructs you to do so. 
> . Navigate to the Observe → Logs panel where you can run LogQL queries. You can aslo query Logs for individual pods from the pods view *Aggregated Logs* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Refresh the page when a pop-up message instructs you to do so. 
. Navigate to the Observe → Logs panel where you can run LogQL queries. You can also query Logs for individual pods from the pods view *Aggregated Logs* tab.
```

Author: good catch, fixed!

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.4
:_template-generated: 2025-04-18
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="installing-the-logging-ui-plug-in_gui{context}"]

> = Installing the Logging UI plug-in by using the web console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Installing the Logging UI plugin by using the web console
```

Install the Logging UI plug-in by using the web console to visualize logs.
 
.Prerequisites
* You have administrator permissions.

> * You have access to the OpenShift Container Platform web console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have access to the {product-title} web console.
```
